That's really what we like to
do. Sometimes we go as far as trying to define the
problem. Most times, the ordinary engineer is
involved in solving other people's problems.
Science thinks that there is a... science is
something in itself. It doesn't need
application. In fact, if it has application,
perhaps it's already limited or hated.
I once heard a toast given on pure mathematics. The
toast was, here's to pure mathematics. May it
never be of any use to anybody. And that, in the
context of freedom of thought, not constrained by
application. So if you want to define pure science
in that way, that's not what we're involved in. Do
you think you're just doing it by application? Not
by application, but to function or purpose.
I always have a bottom line that I'm doing this
because it's going to affect this result.
I think science is a very valuable, you've got to
have pure, applied, basic, whatever you want to
call it. And I don't know, I don't use the word pure
science very much. People use the word basic
science. And in basic science, at the research
level, PhD level, there's not much difference
between what an engineer does and what a scientist
does. But I think the bottom line is an engineering
research person would have the application or the
bottom line purpose in mind as he does it. So he
starts out to do a problem. And in going along, he
finds he doesn't have all the answers. He can't
solve the problem. So then he looks beyond. And he
doesn't look... He looks beyond what he's doing
and tries to find... more knowledge about to bring
to bear on the problem. That's what he does. And so
he would expand and hopefully encompass the body
of knowledge that will allow him to solve his
problem. If he does, then that's it. If he doesn't,
he'll go as far into magnetic theory or crystal
structure or whatever needs to be done in his
discipline. The engineer is working in solid
state electronics. over there doing the same kind
of basic stuff as the guys in physics who are in the
same field, crystallography. They're looking at
the structure of crystals and how the electrons go
over here and over there. Those guys over in
engineering are doing the same thing. But it's
just the perspective. In science, they're maybe
doing it just to understand what's going on. And in
engineering, we're trying to make the circuit
work faster. We're looking for ways to do it. In my
opinion, there's plenty of opportunity to do
either one, but generally, in engineering, we're
trying to get a job done cost-effectively that
sets our,
what we're doing, motion. As an engineer, did you
find working with T's cost-effective?
Basically, I didn't know much about cheese. I
mean, I knew of cheese, I knew Harry Whitmore, I
knew, you know, but that didn't, I was just my own,
the typical engineering faculty member involved
in research in a company. It's a vertically
integrated company. He draws his own crafts, he
writes his own proposals, he executes those
proposals, he goes to Washington to sell them,
takes the money, he spends it, and he testifies to
Congress, and he lectures internationally. He
does all those things, like drawing his own graphs
to go into an international forum. He's in his
area, and he's just like this, a slice. And he's out
doing that all around the world. Now,
you come to a point in your career where you would
like to take what you're doing and involve maybe
more people or give it some structure and say what i
need is a laboratory and what i need is this piece of
equipment to make this laboratory go where am i
going to generate that that money you say my
contracts specify that i'm going to do this kind of
research and i'm going to employ these kind of
people they almost never have large equipment or
space so now you need to go see somebody is helping
you and saying, gee, here's my problem. I need to
have $100,000 worth of equipment. If I had this
$100,000 of equipment, I can generate $500,000 of
research a year. This is going to educate this many
kids, this much overhead. It sounds like a good
deal. Here's your money. Go do it. And then you
never see them again, except if you don't do it.
Well, how do the researchers come to find out that
TEAS exists to do that? Some astute people find
that out in three or four years. Some dummies like
me, it takes seven or eight years that there is the
opportunity to do that. It kind of depends on your
own personal... If you've come here to get that,
then you've exposed yourself. You've asked for
assistance, and now the eye is on you. You've asked
for $100,000? Okay, you've got it. Now let's see
what you can do, fellas. We're watching. So... You
want to risk that kind of exposure when you do that.
So that's a certain side of it. It just depends how
mature you are. Generally, you don't come here
anyway without your department head. So
generally, T's would say, OK, go back. If your
department head believes in this as much as you
believe in this, you both come to me, and we'll talk
about what the opportunities are. You really
can't afford to deal with 500 different faculty
members on a day-to-day, personal basis until you
deal with the department head. That's really been
the key that you can't be affected. The department
head then makes some judgment and say, you know,
I'm doing about a million dollars worth of
research. TEAS probably shouldn't be able to
support me about 10% of that or something. So this
year I might be able to ask for $100,000 to make new
things happen. And if I ask for it all for this guy,
then I'm not going to be able to come back again. So I
better believe in it. And if the department head
believes in it, and then comes with you to get the
money, and the faculty member knows it's a
worthwhile thing, the department head dies, and
he can
get . As
an engineer, and as someone doing research,
Did you, how did you personally realize that TUES
was here?
Well, in my case, we were one of the departments
that had a separate, every department head is a
TUES division head. In engineering. In
engineering, right. So the department head of
electrical engineering is the department head
and the division head for TEAS research. So you
know, and he's the main interface. You really work
with the department head. And the department head
works for two people. When he wants to get research
money, he works for the experimentation. When he
wants to get some new courses, he works for the
dean. So you know that. In some departments'
cases, in the early days, There was somebody from
this office who was really the division head. And
the department head wasn't interested in
research, for example. He said, we don't really
need too much research. Then there was another
person. And Dr. Bain was the representative from
the Ingenic Experiment Station who helped us with
research. So he would visit every month or so and
come around
and talk to you. So that was the structure. money
paid to the director or to the heads of the
departments coming from TEAS? Sure, right.
Generally, one quarter of the salary is put aside.
And it's up to them if they would like to. They get so
much money. And if they would like to put
themselves on the payroll, that's fine. If they
would like to save that money and teach more
courses themselves and give that money to junior
faculty, that's great. But if they do put
themselves on time and get release time to do this.
Right. But it's there. And in part of his case, he
releases himself. Yeah. But he feels that his time
is best invested. Sure. How do you feel the role of
teams has changed in terms of dissemination
of information? There was a period of time many,
many years ago when engineering experimentation
used to make official publications on the work
they did. And as far as I could tell in the 70s, that
wasn't done.
I think in 81, we got Penny Beaumont to come over and
reestablish our information services. And I
think the dissemination of information has
improved vastly, but I think it's nowhere near
Have we been able to disseminate information
on the level we should, and as effectively as we
should? We're now doing a number of things. For
example, we have abstracts in our Windows
publication of recent Keyes' publications. We
started a research library that we're going to
catalog and house. We started the Keyes monograph
series, which is going to see a report or a paper
dealing with a single topic. And while it may be
technically very advanced and very interesting,
to be really useful to the next level of working
person, such as a consulting engineer or whoever
it might be, it needs to be put together a little
bit. So what I've been looking for is
opportunities to take those people working in an
area four or five years. that understand that
they've written four or five papers, put that
together in a format that's going to be useful from
then on, but not just be isolated topics. So that's
what the purpose of the Thieves Monograph Series
is, to take this mature research body of work, put
it together in a form that is now permanent and
useful as reference material for the rest of the
world. So we're just trying different niches and
trying to fill those niches. And we've started on
several areas, but I think there's a lot more we
have
to do. Are there any other particular programs
that I haven't asked you about that you remember as
being partisan? Over the years? Mm-hmm.
No, I really can't think of too many. The one that's
recent is our T-cells program. I don't know if
you've heard of that. I've read about it, but no
one's ever told me about it before.
Again, in the structure that we're in, very often
it's easy to have a situation where a guy's been
working his heart out for 10, 20 years, and nobody
really knows.
And on the one hand, he worked for TEAS. And on the
one hand, he worked for the university. And the
university says, well, he does his research at
TEAS. So TEAS should do whatever recognition
should be done. And on the other hand, TEAS says,
well, he's a faculty member. We're just here to
provide a few opportunities. So when I came over,
one of the things that I thought might be useful in
making everybody feel like there was a team and
that research over the long period was valuable
and rewardable is I started the Monograph Series
and I started the Teeth Fellows Program. The Teeth
Fellows Program was endowed tease money at a
million dollars to produce roughly $100,000 a
year. And what we do with that is look for the top 20
researchers in the experiment station and give
them a $5,000 award for anything they want to do
that is legal in the state. Many of them are buying
their own computers that they take home, and then
they work at home, plug into, you know, really it's
a great investment. Some of them do international
travel, or both. But the point is, they don't have
to, when an opportunity comes up, they don't have
to ask the department head for money, they don't
have to ask us for money, they don't have to ask
anybody for money. They just go and do it. This is
$5,000 to apply to their research? Research and
professional development, right. And $5,000 of
the flexible money is, say, worth a $50,000
contract because it is entirely flexible. And so
we have done two years now of this. We started out
with 12, and then we now have 20. About two of those
are... visiting people, so it gives an
opportunity to attract people to come here from
Germany or France, wherever the coverage are.
Most of those are for the senior type researchers
that I've already explained that have given a
lifetime of research, and this is a reward. And
then a small amount of them for Bible, to recognize
extremely bright young kids. And give them a
little, say, gee, you're doing good, you know,
you're not perfect, but go do some more. And so
that's what we've been using it for. And we meet two
or three times a year with them, have luncheon and
so forth. And we have no pressure on them to perform
anything. Just to give them a feeling they're part
of a professional team and their work is
recognized and appreciated. And I think it's
built a lot of good feeling and helped to develop a
less competitive environment for them to be
working together. We charge those fellows,
especially the senior ones, their job, if
anything, is to act like a steward to the younger
faculty and bring them along. If they're looking
for something to do, be a mentor. So that's what we
approach them with. I think that has helped the
visibility team. Yes. Right. These two things
were ideas that I had that I thought would improve
the visibility, improve prove the fact that, you
know, a lot of people would say, well, geez, all
they want to do is just get a lot of research, and
they're not really interested in what the
research is. And, you know, in the bottom line,
there's always that element to it, but I thought
that might break that a little bit and give a little
better feeling about that. Who chooses these
folks? We have a system-wide committee. It's a
proposed representative of the president's
office using Charlie McCann and Chuck McCann. I'm
a representative of the dean's office.
Two TEAS division heads, which I rotate, and
myself. And we take in 40, 50 nominations from the
division heads. We evaluate it. And it's not only
open to faculty. We have a senior researcher. His
name is Reed. He's a Korean guy that's been here
many years and worked for the Food Protein Center.
We have two from the College of Business. We have a
business technology group. We have Dr. Daft, and
Dr. who stays in director of that thing.
We have two from there. So it's not just
engineering, it's T's wide, but it's mainly
engineering. Has the interdisciplinary aspect
changed much? Well, it's a very difficult thing to
do. You probably know. But it is a unique thing that
we can do that never fails to excite people from the
outside. If you tell them that you're capable of
involving multidisciplinary teams, they just
think that's terrific. They don't see that at
other universities. Frankly, it's a very
difficult thing to do. If we do do it, we don't do it
as successfully as we'd like to. There's a lot of
pressures to compartmentalize things. But it's a
very valuable and useful thing, certainly in
engineering, to be able to do this. You can begin to
look at much more complex, more meaningful
problems if you're able to do that. You can't look
at a problem like water. Has this
striving
for interdisciplinary
cooperation been here since you've been here?
more strong lately. It's something that we're
trying to do. I think it's beginning to be
recognized that we're trying to keep those paths
open. Like I said, it's difficult. Is there
anything else you'd like to add about TEAS or its
role or anything that I haven't asked you about? I
think you asked some good questions.
No, I don't know if there's anything useful and I
think, I hope I've told what I think is the real
story of research and how TEAS is not. TEAS is
basically individual faculty members doing what
they want to do. And we provide the umbrella. The
university is the same thing, way too. The
university may say they're doing a whole bunch of
stuff. What it is is a bunch of individuals working
for themselves in more or less loosely connected
areas. And that's not bad. But that's easy the same
way,
except even more so, because the element of proof
is the international and national competition.
We direct very little. But the amount that we do
have to direct, we unfailingly do in a very
leveraged way. In other words, we start things.
get them going, but we never stand back and say
we're going to pay for this operation for the next
20 years out of our limited resources. It can't
really fly its own one way or the other, and it
probably doesn't need to be here, or it needs to be
at the University of Columbia, and they'll make it
free. Okay. Thank you for your time.